Update ProvisioningRequest documentation by adding a new way of passing Parameters to ProvisioningRequest (#1918)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/admission-check-controllers/provisioning.md

---

The Provisioning AdmissionCheck Controller is an AdmissionCheck Controller designed to integrate Kueue with [Kubernetes cluster-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler). Its primary function is to create [ProvisioningRequests](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/4872bddce2bcc5b4a5f6a3d569111c11b8a2baf4/cluster-autoscaler/provisioningrequest/apis/autoscaling.x-k8s.io/v1beta1/types.go#L41) for the workloads holding [Quota Reservation](/docs/concepts/#quota-reservation) and keeping the [AdmissionCheckState](/docs/concepts/admission_check/#admissioncheckstate) in sync.

The controller is part of Kueue. You can enable it by setting the `ProvisioningACC` feature gate. Check the [Installation](/docs/installation/#change-the-feature-gates-configuration) guide for details on feature gate configuration.

The Provisioning Admission Check Controller is supported on [Kubernetes cluster-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) versions 1.29 and later. However, some cloud-providers may not have an implementation for it.

## Usage

> To use the Provisioning AdmissionCheck create an AdmissionCheck with `kueue.x-k8s.io/provisioning-request` as a `.spec.controllerName` and provide ProvisioningRequest configuration with `ProvisioningRequestConfig` as `.spec.parameters`. See an example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Provisioning AdmissionCheck, create an [AdmissionCheck](docs/concepts/admission_check)
with `kueue.x-k8s.io/provisioning-request` as a `.spec.controllerName` and create a ProvisioningRequest configuration usign a `ProvisioningRequestConfig` object. See an example below.
```

## ProvisioningRequest configuration

There are two ways to configure ProvisioningRequest sent for your Jobs.

> - **ProvisioningRequestConfig:** This configuration in the AdmissionCheck applies to all Jobs it validates. It enables you to set `ProvisioningClassName`, `managedResources`, and `Parameters`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ProvisioningRequestConfig:** This configuration in the AdmissionCheck applies to all the jobs that go through this check.
It enables you to set `provisioningClassName`, `managedResources`, and `parameters`
```

> - **Job annotation**: This configuration applies only to a specific Job. It enables you to set `Parameters`, and if both the annotation and the ProvisioningRequestConfig refer same one, annotation overrides it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Job annotation**: This configuration applies only to a specific job. It enables you to set `parameters`, and if both the annotation and the ProvisioningRequestConfig refer same one, annotation overrides it.
```

The controller is part of Kueue. You can enable it by setting the `ProvisioningACC` feature gate. Check the [Installation](/docs/installation/#change-the-feature-gates-configuration) guide for details on feature gate configuration.

The Provisioning Admission Check Controller is supported on [Kubernetes cluster-autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) versions 1.29 and later. However, some cloud-providers may not have an implementation for it.

## Usage

To use the Provisioning AdmissionCheck, create an [AdmissionCheck](docs/concepts/admission_check)
with `kueue.x-k8s.io/provisioning-request` as a `.spec.controllerName` and create a ProvisioningRequest configuration usign a `ProvisioningRequestConfig` object. See an example below.

## ProvisioningRequest configuration

There are two ways to configure ProvisioningRequest sent for your Jobs.

- **ProvisioningRequestConfig:** This configuration in the AdmissionCheck applies to all the jobs that go through this check.
It enables you to set `provisioningClassName`, `managedResources`, and `parameters`

> - **Job annotation**: This configuration applies only to a specific job. It enables you to set `parameters`, and if both the annotation and the ProvisioningRequestConfig refer same one, annotation overrides it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Job annotation**: This configuration enables you to set `parameters` to a specific job. If both the annotation and the ProvisioningRequestConfig refer to the same parameter, the annotation value takes precedence.
```

### ProvisioningRequestConfig

> This controller uses a `ProvisioningRequestConfig` as parameters, like:

Reviewer: This doesn't read well.

Maybe just:

```suggestion
A `ProvisioningRequestConfig` looks like the following:
```

> 

Reviewer: It looks like we are missing a section that explains how to configure the ProvisioningRequest into a ClusterQueue.

> ## Parameters

Reviewer: Add a preamble along this lines:

There are two ways to configure the parameters to be sent to a ProvisioningRequest for your Jobs. You can configure via `ProvisioningRequestConfig` to set parameters to all jobs that land(are assigned?) on it. Or you can configure it per job using annotations.

Check the [API definition](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kueue/blob/main/apis/kueue/v1beta1/provisioningrequestconfig_types.go) for more details.

### Job annotation

> Another way to pass ProvisioningRequest's [Parameters](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/0130d33747bb329b790ccb6e8962eedb6ffdd0a8/cluster-autoscaler/apis/provisioningrequest/autoscaling.x-k8s.io/v1beta1/types.go#L115) is by using Job annotations. Every annotation with the ***provreq.kueue.x-k8s.io/*** prefix will be directly passed to created ProvisioningRequest. E.g. `provreq.kueue.x-k8s.io/ValidUntilSeconds: "60"` will pass `ValidUntilSeconds` parameter with the value of `60`. See more examples below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to pass ProvisioningRequest's [parameters](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/0130d33747bb329b790ccb6e8962eedb6ffdd0a8/cluster-autoscaler/apis/provisioningrequest/autoscaling.x-k8s.io/v1beta1/types.go#L115) is by using Job annotations. Every annotation with the ***provreq.kueue.x-k8s.io/*** prefix will be directly passed to created ProvisioningRequest. E.g. `provreq.kueue.x-k8s.io/ValidUntilSeconds: "60"` will pass `ValidUntilSeconds` parameter with the value of `60`. See more examples below.
```

> Once a ProvisioningRequest is created, modifying value of annotations will have no effect, similarly to using ProvisioningRequest without Kueue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Kueue creates a ProvisioningRequest for the job you submitted, modifying the value of annotations in the job will have no effect in the ProvisioningRequest.
```
